

MODULE M1CHOOSING A TECHNICAL BUSINESS IDEA







1.Collect Ideas early 









2.Brainstorm Range of Ideas











3.Select a Manageable Idea











4. Develop a Clear Focus











5. Ensure Personal Interests











6.Identify Data Source









7.Create Potential into Real Business













8.Consider Competitive Forces











9.Gain Expert Opinions









10. Start Planning











11.Hand in one page (500 words). Listing ideas, choice & title.













MODULE M1 CHOOSING A BUSINESS IDEA



1.Rationale



You should be thinking about your choice of business ideas during HND1.  The idea will be developed in HND2 into a professional business plan.



2.Definition



An idea may be sparked by technical challenges or problems.  The idea will be transformed into a product or services in one of three methods:

A start up eBusiness

Converting a conventional business to eBusiness

Greatly growing an existing eBusiness.



3.Advantages



A good idea is one that is both focused and manageable.  

Try not to be too ambitious in your choice of project.



4.Action Points



Collect ideas in HND Year 1

Brainstorm a range of ideas.

Select an idea that is manageable

Select an idea that has a clear focus.

The idea should be of personal interest and value to you.

Can you get hold of the data you need?

Does the idea have potential to develop into an eBusiness.

Carefully consider competition.

Start planning ahead.

Finally hand in one page of your ideas together with your preferred choice and a simple title.

Is the project technically feasible? 





5.Do’s and Don’ts



Do consider key issues and likely problems at the beginning of the project.

Do consider how to overcome these problems.

Do consider legal and financial aspects.





6.Thought Provoking Questions



Q1.Can you achieve your chosen goal?

Q2.Is your idea sufficiently focussed?





7.Best Resource for Help



Sparked off by lecturers

Ideas from press and trade journals

An identified local need

Personal knowledge and interest



