

MODULE M3PROJECT PROPOSAL ACTION POINTS

AHND_eCP_C5_sp09_proposal_name_ID.doc

10. Gain written approval from your tutor before proceeding

9.Hand in your proposal

8.Budget

7.Schedule of Events

6.Proposed Solutions

5. Difficulties

4. Staffing (if appropriate)

2.Project Objectives

1.Short Project Title

Description of the Project

























3.Research Methods http://www.business.gov.eg/Step2Frm.aspx?level=1&Step=6&D_Step=224























































































MODULE M3WRITING THE PROJECT PROPOSAL



1.Rationale

You have generated a number of ideas and may have chosen your preferred one.  You are asked to draft one page containing your ideas, options and choices.  You are advised to discuss them with your tutor and your mentor.



2.Definition

The project proposal is the first assessed item of the project worth 15% of the marks.  You are asked to prepare a project plan with objectives and a time schedule, a maximum 2,000 words in memo format.



3.Advantages

An effective plan helps you to avoid getting lost.

It provides a beacon to help you in your travels.

You can make mistakes on paper.

It helps communicate the project aims.



Action Points



1. Description of the project and project objectives: This should make the nature of your proposed presentation clear to your readers.

2. Methodology: Having stated what you are going to do now, now describe in detail how you will do it.  You must take a hard look at time, resources, skills and choose the best method.

3. Staffing (if appropriate): You should list the roles and responsibilities of members 

in your team.

4. Difficulties and proposed solutions: It is obviously sensible to forecast what difficulties you foresee, and ways of avoiding them or dealing with them.

5. Schedule: Most importantly, you will get your schedule from your tutor.  Using these and other dates suggested by your tutor and other events in your lives, draw up (graphically, if you like) a firm schedule that you can use to monitor and control your activities and progress.

6. Costs: Insofar as you can estimate them, the cost implications of your plan should be carefully calculated and detailed, for your own sake.

7. Do gain approval from your tutor before proceeding.  

5.Do’s and Don’ts



Do take care in planning realistically

Do include a schedule of work.



6.Thought Provoking Questions

Q1.Have you thought how you would raise funds?

Q2.What help can you obtain?





7.Best Resource for Help



Your tutor or mentor

Your fellow students

Your family



NOTE:  An example  outline project proposal is given in Chart M3 overleaf.









CHART  M3POSSIBLE PROPOSAL template





An example of a proposal report layout: -





1.Terms of Reference



2.Introduction



3. Project plan



3.1. Objectives

3.2. Major Milestones



4.Initial Research



         4.1..     Academic Research  البحث الأكاديمي



4.2. Market Research



5.Resource Estimates



5.1. Time

5.2. Outline Hardware Requirements

5.3. Outline Software Requirements

5.4. User Support



6.Outline Budgets



7.Potential Risks



7.1. Security

7.2. Legal



8.Technical



8.1. Context Design for Website

8.2. Outline Design of Website

8.3. Outline Testing Strategy



9.Summary



9.1. Overall Objective

9.2. Required Outcomes



10.Recommendation





















