MODULE M7 WRITING THE BUSINESS PLAN ACTION POINTS









ADVICE ON WRITING







Decide Controls

Set Maximum Words

Start Writing Early

Minimise Appendices

Aim to Guide Readers

Produce to High Quality

Avoid Use of First Person









 



























ADVICE ON LAYOUT









Present in English

Submit Two Copies

Maximum 6000 Word Guideline

At Least 12 Points

Print on both sides

15mm Margin

A4 White Pages

Fully Justified Left and Right









































































MODULE M7WRITING THE BUSINESS PLAN



1.Rationale

A business plan is a widely used management tool

It is used as an integrating method

It is also used for control purposes.



2.Definition



Not to be confused with the project plan. The project plan can lead onto the business plan.The business plan controls the SOSTAC elements and simulation analysis.



3.Advantages



It is better to plan on paper

To make mistakes on paper

The business plan is a map



4.Action Points



Decide on format and controls

Set maximum number of words

Start writing easily

Get some feedback before you commit yourself to a lot of writing

Be prepared to change

Use and review frequently

Minimise appendices

Aim to guide readers

 

5.Do’s and Don’ts



A business plan is a sustained piece of analysed writing

It is not a description of your project.



6.Thought Provoking Questions



Q1.How integrated is your plan?

Q2.How often will the plan be changed?



7.Best Sources for Help



Search www. for examples of good business plans

Consult your books for help and literature.































MODULE M7: SAMPLE TECHNICAL DOCUMENTATION HEADINGS





1.Introduction

1.1Purpose and Scope

1.2About the Website

1.3Web Hosting



2.Architectural Prespective

2.1Web Application Architecture - General Prespective

2.2Website Architecture



3.Technologies Used

3.1Server - Side Scripting Language

3.2Client - Side Scripting Language

3.3Database

3.4HTML

3.5<Any other>



4.Web Solution

4.1Directory Structure

4.2Naming Conventions

4.3Screen -Wise Functionality

4.3.1Description of HTML files

4.3.2Description of ASP files

4.3.3<Any other pages>

4.4Database

4.4.1Table Description

4.4.2Database Design

4.4.3Queries Used 

4.5Testing

4.5.1Introduction

4.5.2Unit Test Cases

4.6Quality Assurance

4.6.1Technical Assurance Checklist



5.Sample Code





MODULE M7PRODUCING THE WEB BASED SOLUTION          



1.Rationale

It is necessary for you to demonstrate that you can produce a web based solution that can satisfy a business to business or a business to customer application

It is important that you can demonstrate that you can follow a formal development process

It is necessary for you to provide documentation of your web based solution that facilitates easy subsequent maintenance.



2Scope

The solution should cover as a minimum the following

Web page design

Security log-on

Database maintenance

Reporting systems

Web Hosting



3.Documentation

Must be professional. The documentation of your web based solution will demonstrate your abilities to a prospective employer. A piece of work that is of the standard produced by a major software house will mark you out as a practitioner rather than an amateur. It is strongly recommended that you follow a formal structure: sample technical documentation headings, overleaf.





Action Points

Review design issues from earlier units.

Try to take a staged approach so that you get a simple solution fully working before attempting a more complex solution. This way, if you run out of time before you complete the complex version, you will, nevertheless, have a working solution.

Remember the importance of testing

Leave time for uploading the web pages onto the server and to test them again once they are in situ.



5.Do’s and Don’ts

Concentrate on usability rather than technical complexity.

Maintain good organisation of documentation



6.Best Sources for Help



Refer to Website Design Notes

Look at professionally produced documentation.





